hi there I'm Adam physical therapist
here at Baystate Medical Center and I'm
here with Gail my assistant for the time
being what we're going to go over right
now is a total hip replacement
evaluation now to start the evaluation
I'm going to ask you a few questions
whether you have stairs to get into your
house do you have stairs once in you're
inside your house we're using a cane a
walker or a wheelchair before you came
to have this surgery here at Bay State
after I'm done asking you some questions
I'm going to teach you a few exercises
now there's three main exercises that
you will have to do if you're a total
hip replacement patient the first one is
an ankle pump ankle pumps you're going
to push your ankles down and then you're
going to pull them up like so you do a
few of those now generally what I'm
going to have you do is 25 reps of ankle
pumps the second one you can relax now
is called a quad set your quads are on
the front of your thighs right here and
when you set them you are tightening
them alright so what I want you to do is
push your knees down into my hand Gail
and see how their feet rise up a little
bit that's normal that's good hold for
three seconds one two and three and
relax that's a great quad set okay you
can relax and now the third exercise is
called a glute set your glutes are on
your butt okay what you're going to do
is going to tighten your butt for three
seconds one two three and relax one more
time and you should it's normal that you
lift up you should lift up you're not
sucking your gun and you're lifting your
hips up good so we have ankle pumps quad
sets and glute sets for total hip
replacement patient after we done some
exercises and you had done 25 reps of
all three of them what I'm going to do
is review your total hip precautions
these are just a few rules that we got
to go over to make sure that you protect
your new hip all right now the total hip
precautions in detail one of which if
you're sitting down okay you can see
that she has a pillow between your knees
this means that you can't cross your
legs okay your left over your right or
your right over your left now for the
purpose of this demonstration we're
going to assume that she has a left
total hip replacement okay so no
crossing the legs
all right now with your left leg okay no
internal rotation okay if your knee is
pointing inward or your toes pointing
inward don't do that all right and then
thirdly is the ninety degree rule so if
I was going to be sitting in this chair
right here that makes my body
orientation a 90 degree angle that's
safe okay
this rule pertains to if you close that
angle you make it less than 90 degrees
so you can't bend forward past 90
degrees or with your left leg bring it
up above your hip level you see how my
knee is above my hip that's breaking the
90 degree rule okay
so no crossing the legs no turning your
left leg inward okay
and then no sittin past 90 degrees those
are your three hip precautions so after
we do some exercises review your total
hip precautions then we're going to move
towards getting out of a chair okay
there's a few steps with that so if Gail
sitting up what I'm going to do is I'm
going to sit you upright like you're in
the chair okay and kind of let your legs
naturally dangle and also want to stress
once I sit you up right in your chair
that it's not a cue for you to get up
and start walking we got to go over a
few rules okay so Gail when you get out
of this chair you're first going to let
scoot yourself to the edge of the chair
so let your butt come forward okay can
you do that good and now you also
automatically put your leg out straight
that's one thing that's another rule
about your total hip precautions you're
not going to stand up to your walker
without your leg out straight your first
step you got to get that leg out so
here's your Walker your leg is out
straight and your hands are in a perfect
position your hands go right here not on
the Walker okay
so hands right here your leg is out
straight and don't do this I'm just
going to demonstrate what you're going
to do is I'm going to rock forward push
with your strong right leg in your arms
then you grab on to the Walker okay so
you're standing upright once you're
feeling okay you're not
z and you don't you feel comfortable
what we're going to do is going to start
to walk to walk okay now you're going to
push your Walker out in front of you
take a step with your left leg then your
right up to it and stop these are three
steps so you're going to move your
Walker left leg then right leg got that
kale all right now the same goes for
when we're done walking and you want to
sit back down you have your you want to
get your left leg out in front of you
okay so you're going to first want to
feel the chair with your legs get your
left leg out in front and now I want you
to start to reach back for the chair and
as you're sitting make sure you get this
leg out in front of you okay you're not
just going to you know even if you're
tired okay we really got to make sure
that you get that leg out so left leg
out
reach back have a seat alright you want
to go ahead and try to stand so your
hands are in perfect position okay you
can stand up I'm going to help you out
you're always going to be safe and I'll
grab onto the Walker good you feel dizzy
at all you feel good okay all right so
now we're just going to take a couple
steps so push your Walker now step with
your left leg first please then your
right leg and stop and one more step as
good and stop okay now for the purpose
of this demonstration can you just back
up to the chair so you feel it there you
go
so you're not a patient right now so now
we're going to sit okay generally as
we're walking out of this gym okay
there's going to be a rehab a that's
following you with the chair okay so you
won't have to backpedal to the chair and
sit down it's going to be following you
and you may not even realize it so when
we sit down we want to first get that
leg out ahead of you reach back for the
chair with your arms wonderful and then
slowly sit down as you're sliding that
leg out perfect okay and then the last
step Gail and for you at home is just a
scoot back into the chair and then we're
going to recline your legs up
okay how do you feel good